# Event Guide

This will be a quick rundown on how to play events, for new players. It won't cover literally every detail, but it should be enough to get you started.

In Enstars, we get 2 events per month. There are different types of events, but for now I'll explain new unit song events, or unit events. If you understand these first, you'll be able to understand the other types of events more easily.

Each event will last for roughly 8 days. In the app, before the event starts, you will see when it's scheduled to start by tapping the event icon from the homepage. The time on that page will be in your local timezone, which should match noon in GMT-5 timezone (which is the timezone some other parts of the app use, and also the timezone the official Twitter account uses). Once the event starts, you'll be able to see the time it's scheduled to end. It will also show in your timezone, and should be equivalent to 22:00 (10PM) GMT-5.

**The main prize is the 5* event card, which you can get your first copy of at 3,500,000 points.** You can get additional copies too, but it will cost a lot more event points. **You cannot get the event 5* without spending diamonds or whistles.** You will need to save up over time, or spend money, to afford the event 5*. If you are willing to spend money, both subscription packs can help you, as they have discounted costs of diamonds and whistles which you will need in the event.

During the event, you will play normal lives with BP in order to gain event points and passes. You can also play the newly added event song, from the event page, by utilizing passes. You will definitely want to play the event song, because it gives a lot of points per play.

When you play regular songs, you need to use BP. If you use 0 BP, you will not get any event points. The base value of points you will get per event song is **2000 points per 1 BP**. After that, your actual score on the song is taken into consideration. You gain an additional amount of points equivalent to **your song score, divided by 5000**. This means if you scored 1,000,000 in the song you played, you will get 200 additional points. **For this example, I will use a sample score of 1,000,000, which gives us 200 additional event points, per 1 BP used.**

Now, each event comes with a theme scout gacha. Each rate up gacha card will have an event bonus. The rarer the cards, and the more copies you have, the higher your bonus will be. You can see the exact rate in-game. **Only the cards you include on your team will have their bonus applied.** So if you pulled 2 bonus cards, but only put 1 in your team, you will only get that one card's bonus. Note that **you do not need to have a bonus card in order to play the event**, but a higher bonus will make your life easier if you have it. A very important detail is that **you can include bonus cards in your support team or your main team**, and get the same bonus either way. This means that, **if you do have any bonus cards, you should always include at least 2, if you have that many**, because there are 2 support slots, and even if you don't have resources to level up those cards, it still won't tank your score potential, since they can live in the support slots instead.

Your bonus cards will have their bonus percentages added together. So if you have one card with a 3% boost, and another card with a 2% boost, the total will be a 5% boost. Your total bonus is then factored into your event points each time you play a song. **Using a 5% bonus as an example, if you used 1 BP, and scored 1 million in the song (and thus got 200 additional event points), you would have a total of 2200 + (2200 * 5%) points, or 2200 * 1.05 points, to put it another way. That total would be 2310 points, per 1 BP play.**

If you spend more than 1 BP per play, you will have this entire score get multiplied. **Given the sample score of 2310, if you used 3 BP to play a song, you would receive 6930 points for that play.** However, please keep in mind that **you will gain less player EXP and less material drops** if you multiply your BP. Despite this, For any sane person, **it's not feasible to use 1BP at a time, so please use the BP multiplier** if you're aiming high. **Multiplying BP does not lower your event points.**

Every time you play a song with BP, you also get event passes. You will get **10 passes per BP spent**. This also will multiply based on your BP multiplier. So if you did a song with 3 BP, you will get 30 passes.

When playing the event song, you don't use BP. Instead, you'll use the passes you collect from playing normal songs. The rate of points is slightly different here too. The song score still contributes the same amount per play, assuming you use the lowest possible amount of passes, which is 100. But **the base points for the event song are 10000** instead of 2000. The calculations are the exact same as regular songs aside from that though, so given the same score and the same event bonus, you'll end up with **10710 points per 100 passes**, which is (10000 + 200) * 1.05. Additionally, you can multiply your pass usage too, so **using 500 passes, you would get 53550 points**.

There are a few more factors to consider too, and this is something that is exclusive to Engstars and other Foriegnstars versions of the game, and doesn't exist in the original Japanese version. The first one to consider is **Starry Live**. This is a feature unlocked at player rank 10. **You can play the event song via Starry Live to gain a flat amount of extra event points.** I would recommend doing this, but do note that **you cannot autoplay during Starry Live**. You will have to full combo the song anyway to get free autoplay so you may as well get the FC while you play Starry Live.

The other Engstars-specific factor is the **event boost talent**. You will need to collect **Society coins** for this, which you can get by joining or creating a Society, once you reach player rank 10. (If you need to find a Society, I recommend joining this [Discord](https://discord.gg/fqG3P2sQcD) where you can meet people to form active Societies, according to your timezone. However, you don't need to be in a super active Society in order to get Society coins. It will just be quicker if you're in a large and active one. Anyway, **the event boost will give you a flat amount of additional event points during the event**. It is **not a multiplier**, and does not apply to every song you play. If you don't have the coins, you don't need to worry too much over it. If you do have the coins, it can be a nice extra bonus.

---

Questions? Did I miss anything? Feel free to join [Discord](https://discord.gg/fqG3P2sQcD) and let me know!
